<name> Tahmidul Alam </name>
<assignmentname> Real World Writing Problem </assignmentname>
	There are two things that changed our world: Communication and Networking. Communication means actively talking with someone without facing any interruptions. Networking means making connections and being a part of the circle. Networking can be done thanks to the help of the internet. The internet allowed the world to experience a revolution that we call “21st Century”. The 21st Century allowed Facebook, Snapchat, and even Gmail to reach the market. As a result, these applications became popular up to the point where simple things like networking and calculating became possible.
	Before the internet, people spoke to each other by telephones. Created by Alexander Graham Bell, the first telephone allowed people to talk to each other in their local area (1 block radius, as wireless calling was not a feature yet). While the rich could afford telephones, an alternative to cell phones were two-way radio transmissions. In other words, think walkie talkies. They were useful for transmission purposes but not very efficient because of battery life. The point is that telephones were revolutionary. People can talk long distance without any troubles at all.
	While earlier telephones were not “modernized”, the invention of the internet brought about a new era. The internet became popular in the 1990s, but the research component (TCP/IP1) began in 1983, according to History2. The usage of “packets” were revolutionary as “packet switching … allow[ed] multiple computer to communicate on a single network”. In other words, computers connecting to the same network. This would allow LAN3 connection in the future (for gaming experiences). While the internet is a vast topic to speak about, it enhanced the earlier technologies. The talk of telephones, for instance, was enhanced after the world’s first smartphone came out in 1992. IBM’s Simon Personal Communicator may have limited functions than the world’s first iPhone in 2007, it has the same “modern” functionalities as today’s smartphones4.
	While IBM’s Simon Personal Communicator became modernized, it’s popularity spread throughout the world. Even though the world was just getting used to radio and television, the use of “smartphones” would allow long distance calling (telephones’ enhanced attribute, thanks to the internet). Wireless communications such as Wi-Fi would change the way we live our lives in terms of reliance in technology. Since the use of technology would reach its peak, the use of underwater cables would be implemented to supply Wi-Fi around the world. Wireless networking allows everyone in the world to talk to each other, search for adventures, and have fun with their family members.
	Video chat applications such as Skype, Imo, Viber, and other apps connected everyone around the world. For example, someone traveling to the Bahamas would use video chat to show their family in Argentina what the Bahamas look like. In fact, video chat was derived from satellite imagery collected by NASA’s space explorations. Research and Development projects such as the Hubble Telescope had to use wireless networking to transport images from outer space into Earth. 
	The earlier technologies were modernized thanks to wireless computing. The innovations in network, wireless, and mobile computing still gets developed today. Innovations are constantly occurring, it does not stop. All the ideas are modified one after the other. If innovation were to stop, then the new iPhone would not come out; the new Call of Duty would not come out; not even the new Samsung Galaxy smartphone.
	Networking is a very good way to implement innovation into reality. In a similar topic, researchers are looking into 5G internet5. 5G internet is supposed to be the new “thing” of the 21st century. If implemented correctly, this will “accelerate innovation”. The internet that we all have been using will be faster. The only downside is that the internet company will charge you more for getting a faster internet, but who can say no to fast internet? Qualcomm, the lead researcher of the 5G project, believes that the result of 5G will bring about the “early stages of the next technological revolution”. With the use of 5G, wireless networking and computations will bring about a new era.
	Even though mobile, wireless, and network computing involves innovation, the world in which we live in will continue to change. Advances in technology is happening by the second (think binaries in a supercomputer). The encryptions to government firewalls are becoming more secure and harder to crack. The possibilities are endless. With just a simple telephone, smartphones came out. With just the internet, Wi-Fi came out. With Wi-Fi, there came the use of LAN services and worldwide connectivity. These changes happened mostly because of innovation. The internet did play a role but lets all not forget who the real innovators are: our imagination.
       1 Transmission Control Protocol/ Internet Protocol
       2 History.com, Evan Andrews, https://www.history.com/news/ask-history/who-invented-the-internet 
       3 Local Area Network
       4 Business Insider, Steven Tweedie, http://www.businessinsider.com/worlds-first-smartphone-simon-launched-before-iphone-2015-6 
       5 MIT Technology Review, IHS Markit, https://www.technologyreview.com/s/603770/the-5g-economy-how-5g-will-impact-global-industries-the-economy-and-you/ 
   ---------------
   
   ------------------------------------------------------------
   
   ---------------
   
   ------------------------------------------------------------
   
